>> Jon Kuperman: This one we kind of
hinted at earlier about live regions.
Basically, you have these sites
that are really interactive.
And let's say you're clicking buttons and
the buttons are changing a text field,
or it's some kind or game, or
it's some kind chat conversation.
And when they start chatting, you get
a little so-and-so is typing notification,
things like that.
So by default,
the screen reader reads the screen and
then you're kind of left up to your own
devices as you're interacting with it.
It reads everything that's going on,
like an empty chat box.
And then it tells you that you're
on a text field for typing, so
you know what you're saying and
you hit Enter and you hope it's sent.
But Aria live regions are great,
cuz we can tell a screen reader that
a certain area is going to
be updating frequently, and
that it's important that what happens
in there gets spoken to the user.
So they're really good for,
I mean, chat would be big.
I have a contrived example that we're all
gonna do together, but the basic idea is
any region of your site that demands
special interest, special focus, and
it's going to be updating.
Can you just get marked with aria-live?
So aria-live, there's aria-live and
aria-relevant.
So aria-live is just the mode,
like I was talking about before.
So by default it's off.
But you can have polite or assertive mode.
And so this is basically like
the screen reader's kind of API,
where if you're in polite mode, the screen
reader will wait until any other pertinent
information that it's already saying
is done, and then give you an update.
But if it's in assertive mode, as soon
as that live region updates it's going
to be telling you, somebody chatted
hello or that kind of thing.
And then aria-relevant is getting
you a little bit more fine grain.
This one's not always necessary.
But it's just a little bit
more finding control into what
types of changes should we be
letting the user know about.
So you could do additions, like DOM Node
additions,, removals, a text change, or
all sorts of changes.
Again, so for
chat you'd probably just want maybe,
I guess you could go either way.
You wouldn't want deletions, but
you'd probably want a text change, yeah?
>> Speaker 2: Question from Drew,
hitting space when a button
has focus will click it.
If you assign another element, a rollover
button, will it inherit this behavior?
>> Jon Kuperman: Right,
that's a great question.
Okay so yeah, roll will not mess with
function, won't give it any functionality.
Roll is just changing how
the screen reader will identify it.
So then if you have a span role of button,
like a span you're trying to turn into
button, you'd need to add
an on key down listener.
And then, in that listener, see if space
was the key that was hit down, and
then do something.
>> Speaker 2: Okay,
Victor, another question.
In a single-page app where you show
a loader while data is fetching,
then show the app once it's ready,
how would you use aria roles there?
>> Jon Kuperman: So
I don't think that, well, yeah,
so it's not so
much about roles as much as that plays
really nicely into maybe some of the live
regions stuff that you could do.
So you could have the area where like say,
you have a little side
bar widget that loads.
You could have additions and
removals marked as aria-live over there.
And so then the screen reader,
I mean okay, so
let's actually take a second to
think about it because, it's like,
how important is it that when that content
loads in, that it gets announced, right?
So if it's the main content of your app,
then it's very important.
So you'd want to put
an aria-live region on it.
So that as soon as content loads in,
the screen reader starts reading.
If it's like a sidebar element, it might
not be as important to put live on it,
because you probably don't need that
sidebar information interrupting
the flow of your content.
So I think it's again, just a little
bit subjective in the sense of
thinking about what work
flows could possibly happen.
If it's like your whole app is in a
loading spinner, then I say yeah you just
wanna mark it as a live region so
it gets announced when it comes in.
If it's something kind of tangential,
and you don't do anything,
I guess there's the danger of, I mean,
I would give it some kind of label,
so if someone tabbed over to it, it would
be like, current stock prices loading,
or something like that.
But you might not wanna
have an aria-live on it,
cuz you might not want a sidebar
widget to announce in.
You could again,
maybe split the difference and
go with polite as an aria-live region.
So that way, if it's doing something else,
that's fine.
But when it gets loaded, it at least gets
added into the queue to be announced.
I'm not sure, Jack,
if you have any other suggestions on that.
>> Speaker 3: Yeah, I mean certainly all
of the things that you've said are good
things to consider.
And to your point,
sometimes the answer is it depends
on how you've structured your UI.
I think that, I'm just trying to think if.
The aria-live, well I think either way,
when the content updates,
you just wanna make sure that
the accessibility tree is getting updated.
So that the contents that has now loaded
later is actually getting pushed into that
tree, so that a screen reader or
other assistive technology would see it.
>> Jon Kuperman: Yeah, yeah, so I think,
yeah, I think it definitely depends.
And I think it's just like knowing
what tools you have available, right?
So you can do nothing with a good
label that says stock information,
it's still loading, wait a minute,
or something like that.
You can have it interrupt and announce,
or you can have it announce later, and
kind of choosing what's right at the time.
>> Speaker 2: Victor has
a follow-up question.
So do screen readers pick up changes to
the value of the aria-live attribute?
>> Jon Kuperman: Screen readers announce
the value of the aria-live attribute as
it changes.
So if you have aria-live hello,
and it's aria-relevant all, and
then use JavaScript to change hello
to goodbye, aria-live will announce.
That's specifically what it does.
Hope that answers it.
Victor, let me know if that
didn't answer the question.
And then, and so it is announcing, and
it's specifically what it does, and
then polite or assertive is kind
of like when it announces it